---
layout: post
title: Rackspace Downtime
categories:
- Horror Stories
---
[Update] My team at Rackspace has sent me the fluffiest, most comfortable
pillow I have ever had.

  
When a hosting provider goes down, there are lots of questions that get
raised. Is my host reliable? Will they flake out during crucial times when my
site needs the traffic? Will they [double
bill](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=dreamhost+billing) me?

  
Since I have been working with Rackspace, they have had less than stellar
uptime, with issues mostly related to power. My company pays a lot for hosting
with them, and downtime for a young company is deadly. But oddly enough, I'm
still OK with Rackspace hosting my company's myriad services. The benefits of
hosting with them have been so great that a couple hours of downtime is
nothing.

  
First off, their SLA has provisions for downtime, when it happens. If your
server has a legitimate issue, you're entitled to ask for a credit. To me,
this is a promise that they'll put their money where their mouth is. And if
you call them on it, they'll be reasonable.

  
Secondly, their support during crises is still amazing. During the [truck
incident](http://bit.ly/9LrNz), I was able to get a tech to run fsck on my
disks, and hang out to watch no questions asked. No, I am not on their
intensive plan.

  
Third, their support culture is simply amazing. Their linux techs are always
willing to look deep into an issue to find a resolution, and they provide much
of the basic [infrastructure](http://bit.ly/1HkKYJ) that is hard to come by
for small companies.. They're also completely willing to educate their
customers about the servers they maintain.

  
In short, Rackspace has been the target of a lot of criticism over issues in
their datacenters. The fact of the matter is that there will always be issues
and downtime. [Their SLA](http://www.rackspace.com/solutions/managed_hosting/s
upport/servicelevels/managedsla.php) guarantees the impossible, which they
seem to realize, as any failure on their part comes with swift response. In
the end their SLA seems to be more of a way of setting standards than anything
else.

  
[Full disclosure: I haven't slept in 2 days because of their power issues]

