---
layout: post
title: Crisis MO
categories:
- Best Practices
---
While running any sort of site, expect problems. Lots of them. They will range
from trucks crashing into your data center, to bad releases, to people
defacing your site. Whatever the problem may be, there always seems to be the
same pattern in dealing with it.

  

  1. Fail over
  2. Diagnose
  3. Fix
  4. Fail over
  
  
This list makes a few assumptions. It assumes that there is an alternate
server for you to fail over to, and a means to do so. Having an alternate
server with a simple status page is really cheap and quick to set up. The
easiest way to fail over is probably to use DNS. [Dynect](http://dynect.com/)
offers really great DNS service and has an interface that anyone in the
company can use.

  
Of course, failing over doesn't necessarily mean you take your entire site
down either. It could mean pushing an update that closes a particular feature,
or removing data that's causing a problem. Failing over really means any sort
of quick maneuver that will get you out of hot water.

  
Once you've failed over, it's really important to understand what happened and
why. Knowing what caused the site to break is the most important step in
fixing it. When you're in this situation, it's really easy to put up a quick
fix without understanding what is happening. This can easily lead to thrashing
through a number of quick fixes that each break something else. In situations
like these, making decisions slowly and calmly is crucial. Anything that's not
well thought out can make a bad situation worse.

  
Once the fix is applied, turn the feature back on or point DNS back to the
production site. When everything is back up, it's well worth spending some
time making sanity checks on your fixes.

  
Lastly, it's also well worth the time to thoroughly documentwhat went wrong
and why. The aftermath of crises is a golden opportunity to identify problems
with architecture process. It's also a great time to do a few shots…

