---
layout: post
title: Death of the CTR
categories:
- Advertising
- Mobile
---
Since the dawn of online advertising, the gold standard of effectiveness has
been the CTR. This has made a lot of sense, since for the first time ever,
adertisers could leverage technology to figure out _exactly_ how well they
were communicating. A user would click, and that click would be recorded. The
total number of clicks is compared against the total number of ads that are
put on the screen, and bingo, you know exactly how effective the campaign was.
Combine that number with more advanced analytics, such as tracking the user
past the initial click, onto the advertiser's site, and onto really
interesting places, like the confirmation page of an ecommerce site. This gave
advertisers really effective ways to quantify the effectiveness of a campaign.

  
What has been more difficult to quantify is the value of advertising in
creating engagement and awareness. Simply seeing a brand association between
host site and banner advertisement creates awareness of a brand. Seeing a
banner ad doesn't necessarily trigger immediate reactions (clicks), but can
trigger actions of the user later. Users may be inclined to purchase products
later on because of the brand awareness created by seeing banner ads. This is
awesome for advertisers, who get a return, albeit indirect, from banner
advertising, but it's far less awesome for publishers. That publisher put a
great deal of work to create content that people want to see, and advertising
fees are very common way of monetizng that work. However, CPMs are commonly
determined by CTR. If that publisher has a lousy CTR, as a result of something
terrible, like having a savvy demographic that knows _not_ to click on ads,
then that publisher suffers.

  
Microsoft has long been a proponent of [measuring
engagement](http://advertising.microsoft.com/research/engagement-mapping), and
Google has recently mentioned rolling out tools that will track a user across
sessions on multiple sites. It's clear that the industry needs to move in this
direction, although hopefully it will move slowly and find ways to avoid
becoming a ubiquitous, Minority Report-style system where Skynet knows who you
are, and will show you ads for Banana Republic after you've purchased khakis
from the Gap. However, the rewards for publishers could be great if the larger
players in the industry were able to track users across websites, and even
devices.

