---
layout: post
title: MySQL Error 28
categories:
- MySQL
- Systems Administration
---
Yesterday, I had to run a query for some statistics I needed. This was a query
that I knew were going to be particularly nasty as it required sorting 1.3M
rows. Normally I run these sorts of queries on a reporting slave I keep around
for this reason, but for some reason I chose to run this query on a production
slave. When I ran my query, I got the following error;

  
ERROR 3 (HY000): Error writing file '/tmp/MYNcSyQ9' (Errcode: 28)

  
Oh. *&^%. After some Googling, a bit of shitting my pants, and a wild grep
session through as many application logs as I could find, I was able to figure
out that problem seemed limited to this particular query. My Googling turned
up the fact that the error code indicated that the server was out of disk
space.

  
As a rapidly growing company, we've had our fair share of issues with managing
(or failing to manage) rapidly filling disks, failed RAID controllers, and the
like. However, I had recently done audits of this particular cluster of
servers, and ascertained that the situation with disks was nominal. I was
confident the disk wasn't full, and permissions were correct. Our particular
disk layout puts /tmp on its own 2GB partition, and after running the query,
that partition was 2% full.

  
It turns out that during the execution of the query, MySQL was creating a
temporary table that was 2GB, hence the error. By default MySQL will write
temporary tables to /tmp, which in many cases, is its own small partition. The
solution here was to set the tmpdir to a folder on the main partition adjacent
to the MySQL datadir. This solution obviously has its own problems (ie you
could fill your main partition, which is way worse than filling /tmp) However,
for this type of ad hoc query, this was exactly what we needed.

