---
layout: post
title: Development without Internet Access
categories:
- Development
- Existentialism
---
While flying to Austin for sxsw, I had a small programming task. Take a string
of a few search terms, break it apart and highlight those terms in another
string. It's a straightforward task, and probably a wheel that's been
reinvented thousands of time in the history of computer science. I approached
it as an exercise, to see if I could add another squeaky wheel to the pile. My
goal was to do it without using any 3rd party code or any resources. I had no
access to documentation, google, stack overflow, or any of the other resources
I use constantly to get my job done every day.

  
The code that I produced was bloated, naive, and horribly inefficient (I
suspect). While writing it, i knew I wasn't really on the right path. When I
got back to New York, I took a look at it, and more or less decided I had
wasted my time. Then I realized I had written it on a plane, and had nothing
better to do. I simply got myself into the zone, and wanted to work through a
problem until it was solved. After I got over my initial disgust, I wondered
what aside from boredom and stubbornness had prompted me to complete the task.

  
I never really came to any conclusions until a few days later. I was going
about my day normally, fixing bugs, writing emails, troubleshooting. As I hit
a hard spot, something I couldn't figure out, I gave up staring at the code,
and turned to Google. Then I came across a builtin php function that was
giving me a strange result. After puzzling for a few seconds, I dropped the
function into Google. A little while later, I was examining the results of an
EXPLAIN statement in MySQL, and the output was something I hadn't seen before.
I found the answer on StackOverflow a few minutes later.

  
Then it dawned on me. Maybe I don't actually have the skills to be a web
developer, and I've faked it all these years. Maybe I don't know all that much
about MySQL, and perhaps I only know enough about Linux to cause problems for
Rackspace. Whether or not that's true, I did realize that I'm pretty good at
finding solutions to problems from the collective experiences, wisdom, and
flames of the Internet. Maybe it's not entirely fair to say that I faked my
way through several years of a career. After all the code that I've put
together over the years to answer various questions, or sift through or
collect data serves a purpose, performs relatively well, and is serving people
everyday. Also, that disgusting snippet of string highlighting code works
pretty well, despite that fact that I hate its face and want it to die.

  
After I got myself out of my existential development funk, more questions came
to mind. First, how the F did anyone get any answers to tough questions before
the Internet? Secondly, how did programmers back in the day find any sort of
direction? Books on technology and programming are great, don't get me wrong,
but you can't get answers to complicated questions. After having these
thoughts crop up, I spent a little bit of time looking over other devs'
shoulders at the office. What I saw was very reassuring, as the Google machine
was often hard at work for the rest of the team. The php site, StackOverflow,
and QuirksMode were in browsers constantly.

  
Which begs yet another question: what exactly does it take to be a web
programmer? Based on my experience, it seems to boil down to an Internet
connection, Google, tenacity to the point of stupidity, and decent search
skills. To back up even further, is it possible to take on a job you know
nothing about, and learn how do it via the Internet?

