---
layout: post
title: Three tough projects and bands that got me through them
categories: 
---
Creative Index

  
The now defunct Creative Index was a search engine aimed at indexing portfolio
sites. The Creative Index was perhaps the most open-ended project I have ever
taken on. The goal was to allow people to list their various portfolio sites,
have the Creative Index scrape their sites, index all the textual content, and
make it searchable via a Google-like interface. Of course, the project was
doomed from the beginning, as results would be measured against Google, and we
all know how that goes. I had never taken on a project that required taking
such unstructured data, also another reason it was doomed. Most portfolio
sites contain very little text, which makes matching and ranking difficult.

  
And that's when I discovered the [Mars Volta](http://www.themarsvolta.com/).
While writing the engine to handle the retrieval of web pages, I learned just
how chaotic the underbelly of Internet is. Circular redirects, 404s, bad
links, authenticated pages made my code check hundreds of variables in the
most paranoid, chaotic way possible. The Mars Volta's drug-induced,
hallucination-inspired free-form rock-jazz-samba was a great soundtrack to the
chaos I was trying to make sense of.

  
[Creative Portfolio Display](http://www.linkedin.com/opensocialInstallation/pr
eview?_ch_panel_id=1&_applicationId=104096)

  
In July of 2010, I had the distinct honor of developing one of the few InApps
for Linkedin. LinkedIn's InApp platform runs on Google OpenSocial. OpenSocial
is a great way to plug in 3rd party apps in a secure way. However, the normal
development workflow changes quite a bit, as OpenSocial acts as a caching
proxy. So in order to get changes in your app down to the user/tester/you, you
need to set an additional variable that will re-retrieve the specification for
your app. In order to get to that, you need to find the URL to the iframe that
contains your app, which is only available in a javascript block, add the
cache busting variable, drop the URL in your browser, and hard refresh. That
only worked sometimes. And when it did work, it was pretty much guaranteed
that the change you made didn't.

  
Needless to say, the workflow was painful, even on the best days. Add to that,
some weird firewall issues, and you had a situation that would make St Francis
of Assisi murder kittens. That's where [Passion
Pit](http://www.passionpitmusic.com/) came in. Their music is just
so…damn…happy. In most cases Passion Pit saved me from putting my fist through
my monitor.

  
RightScale, Rackspace Cloud configuration

  
In attempt to save ourselves some money, and automate a lot of the SysAdmin
work I'd been doing by hand over the past couple years, I undertook a
partnership with RightScale. Since in every case, the servers I was deploying
didn't have php, or any other language I knew by default, I had to resort to
bash, which I didn't know. This project took me very out of my comfort zone,
had a Mt Everest of a learning curve, and was so essential to our growth that
it couldn't fail. There were also tons of moving parts that were out of my
control. RightScale's integration with the Rackspace cloud is in Beta, which
meant that in addition to struggling through a language I didn't know, I had
to differentiate my own errors from things that were problems with the sever
images. Tons 'o fun.

  
In stepped [The Bronx (III)](http://www.myspace.com/thebronx), probably one of
the most solid rock bands I've heard in a long time. Their tracks had a real
sense of purpose, and the lyrics echoed a lot of my desperation. In
particular, the line in Pleasure Seekers where desperation is cited as
inspiration totally got me through.

