---
layout: post
title: Why SOPA is fucking stupid
categories:
- Existentialism
- Thoughts
---
At its core, SOPA represents a universal, base desire of men to protect what
they own. To some degree, it's valid, something that anyone can respect.
However, as with most things, ideas mean precisely shite, and execution is
what really matters. In the case of SOPA, a misguided, poorly informed
government is attempting to execute an idea in a way that could do the most
damage possible. Let me count the ways SOPA is fucking stupid.

  
SOPA threatens free speech. [This](http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/28
/morning-bell-the-unintended-consequences-of-internet-regulation/)
[has](http://www.techdirt.com/articles/20111228/10302017214/heritage-
foundation-says-sopa-threatens-free-speech.shtml)
[been](http://blogpatriot2.blogspot.com/2011/12/sopa-threatens-free-speech-
and.html) [said](http://americancensorship.org/) by many folks who are much
smarter than I. Any bill that allows the silencing of voices should not see
the light of day. 'Nuff said.

  
SOPA will starve and fracture an industry. A measure that could be taken
against an "infringing" site is forcing advertising networks to stop serving
ads for said site. For many sites, [advertising](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_Eci
FAUHzQJA/THfX4ogb1PI/AAAAAAAAApw/_8E_nAGoUa0/s1600/madmen.png) is their meat
and potatoes. An equally despicable measure is forcing payment services (can
you say paypal?) to stop accepting [transactions](https://www.google.com/searc
h?q=e+commerce+growth&hl=en&prmd=imvnsu&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=7-Q
LT9myEYXr0gGX6v3wBQ&ved=0CHoQsAQ&biw=1440&bih=805#hl=en&tbm=isch&sa=1&q=meat+a
nd+potatoes&oq=meat+and+potatoes&aq=f&aqi=g4g-m1g-S5&aql=&gs_sm=e&gs_upl=29636
l29636l0l29989l1l1l0l0l0l0l155l155l0.1l1l0&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=67
6c4a75e36741e5&biw=1440&bih=805) from the infringing site. Any site that
relies on e-commerce is now [proper fucked](http://www.hotflick.net/flicks/200
0_Snatch./000SNC_Stephen_Graham_010.jpg). Any service that provides a payment
gateway or ad services is now unreliable. There will be a rift between
providers that cooperate with SOPA, and those that don't.

  
SOPA will break the one thing that makes the Internet accessible to humans,
DNS. [DNS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System) is the system
whereby domains names are translated to network addresses. Assigning IP
addresses easy-to-remember names is one of the reasons the Internet has become
a viable medium. As an extreme measure, SOPA will alter a site's DNS records
to point somewhere else. This last measure make is pretty clear the authors of
these bills are complete [dipshits](http://themalephabet.files.wordpress.com/2
009/06/dipshit-11.jpg?w=450).

  
While altering DNS will render the site inaccessible to most, it does not
remove the existence or accessibility of content from the Internet. This very
post is available [here](http://174.143.169.75/2012/01/12/why-sopa-is-fucking-
stupid/), whether DNS is up or not. To cope with a broken DNS system, the
Internet will respond, and it will not be pleasant. Hardware vendors will ship
with [host files](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_(file)) set up to protect
their own interests. Rogue DNS resolvers will pop up. The Internet will turn
into [Bartertown](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mad_Max_Beyond_Thunderdome).
Two browsers will enter, neither will find Facebook.

  
The [internet industry](https://www.google.com/search?q=e+commerce+growth&hl=e
n&prmd=imvnsu&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=7-QLT9myEYXr0gGX6v3wBQ&ved=0C
HoQsAQ&biw=1440&bih=805#hl=en&tbm=isch&sa=1&q=US+internet+industry+growth&pbx=
1&oq=US+internet+industry+growth&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&gs_sm=e&gs_upl=72732l82019l0l8
2314l26l23l3l1l1l7l234l3216l2.10.7l19l0&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=676c4
a75e36741e5&biw=1440&bih=805) and [e-commerce](https://www.google.com/search?q
=e+commerce+growth&hl=en&prmd=imvnsu&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=7-QLT9
myEYXr0gGX6v3wBQ&ved=0CHoQsAQ&biw=1440&bih=805) have proved to be the
country's highest growth sectors in the past few years. One of the main
contributors to that growth has been the availability of honest, reasonably
reliable, interconnected services. They've given the classic [humble
entrepreneur + code monkey](http://whartoniteseekscodemonkey.tumblr.com/) team
the tools to build a business that yields riches. Compromise those tools, and
you will destroy an industry, not to mention perhaps the last golden vestige
of American opportunity. Creating a market-based system to punish violators
will only destroy the system. To help combat SOPA, contact your local
[congressperson](http://americancensorship.org/), or go here. To read the
bill, [click here](http://thomas.loc.gov/home/gpoxmlc112/h3261_ih.xml).

  

