---
layout: post
title: Try Adding Distance
categories:
- Existentialism
---
Part of my New Years (non-whiny) resolution was to go the gym more often. It
is a resolution that I have (mostly) adhered to over the past six months. When
I go to the gym, I [row](http://www.fatcuda.com/wp-
content/uploads/2012/06/concept-2-model-d-rowing-machine_10_0.jpg). I love the
rhythm, the fight against the machine, and the fact that no else at most gyms
know what to do with it. Rowing is a grueling workout, which is one of the
reasons I like it. Even when the workout is bad, it's good. It also gives me a
chance to crawl inside myself for 20 or so minutes and muddle through the
tumult in my head.

  
For a couple weeks I kept my workout distance consistent at 4k, and was able
to drop the time almost every workout. When I added 1k meters to my workout,
the distance completely outstripped my ability to improve. When rowing the 4k,
I was able to row every
[split](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indoor_rower#Exercise) evenly, with very
little variance in performance. I was even able to throw in some intervals
rowing at way above my normal split, just for funsies.  But when rowing the
5k, my splits varied widely, arced, and crashed for a few months.

  
Measurement on an ergometer is pretty easy. The average split time is recorded
and displayed at the end (if you can still see through the sweat.) Also, for
every 500m you row, there's a split and strokes/minute displayed. Essentially,
it tells you how hard you went out, at what point in your workout you died,
where you rallied, and if you pushed hard at the end. There are no lies,
deception, or excuses on the LCD, only numbers. My takeaway from this screen
is always that I was not consistent enough.

  
I've seen parallels in my own life and career performance as well. While
working on [Creative Portfolio Display](http://www.linkedin.com/opensocialInst
allation/preview?_ch_panel_id=1&_applicationId=104096), an extremely intense,
but relatively short duration project, I was able to push hard, crash, and
push hard again. The entire project was feature complete in approx 3 weeks.
While handling the ever growing DBA responsibilities of be.net, I've had an
extremely difficult time being consistent with a task that requires constant
work over years. Performance there has been inconsistent as the data outgrew
it's architecture.

  
In personalities and friendships, I've come to value the people that remain
consistent over time. People who continue to struggle by doing meaningful work
that is of constant quality over years and years. Intensity is often hailed as
the more desirable between consistency and intensity. But the people who have
been the most valuable in my life and career are those who have stood beside
me for years.

  
In the end, it is the miles that make champions.

