---
layout: post
title: Workflow with Synergy
categories:
- Best Practices
- Process
- Tools
---
As a web developer working in lots of different areas, I have to use [lots of
different programs](http://blog.behance.net/dev/developers-toolkit-chris-
henry) to perform various tasks. Terminal for SSH, Eclipse for php, etc.
Chrome for all things web browsing, including Gmail. Eventually, the number of
tabs I needed to keep open during the day caused my gmail tabs to get lost
pretty easily, even after using the pin feature. Then I stumbled upon
[Mailplane](http://mailplaneapp.com/new_index). Mailplane is a stellar program
that turns gmail into a desktop app.

  
After adding yet another app to my stable, it seemed necessary to divide my
screen real estate into spaces. Part of the problem of having so many
different programs is the problem of context. Once situating the necessary
programs in a way that makes sense for the particular task, changing context
can completely knock me out of my flow. For a period of time, it didn't even
make sense to use Mailplane, as it was easier to actually switch over to my
phone, and read / respond to email there.

  
Then it hit, why not just bring in my laptop, and deal with email there. So I
started bringing my laptop. This was awesome, as it allowed me to deal with
email on relatively normal sized screen and keyboard. The next issue was
dealing with links in emails. After asking the twitterverse and stackexchange,
I finally settled on [Synergy](http://synergy-foss.org/). Synergy allows you
to seamless share your keyboard and mouse between any number of machines. So I
started running Mailplane in fullscreen mode on a laptop situated next to my
desktop. To get to my email, I just mouse all the way to the left, and voila,
I can use a full keyboard / mouse with a laptop. If I need to open links on
the big screens, I just copy and use Chrome's paste & go feature.

  
This works tremendously well, as I can leave any development task as is on my
desktop without having to worry about shuffling things around. It also helps
tremendously when applying pesky software updates, as you always have one
machine that will be up and running.

  

  
[![Rig at the Behnace Office](/images/user/workflow_synergy.jpg)](/images/user/workflow_synergy.jpg)

