---
layout: post
title: "Chat and Dense Communication"
date: 2015-08-30 10:13
comments: true
categories:
 - operations
 - team
---

If you haven't noticed, communication among teams (distributed or local) is a
thing that people care a lot about. For my team, we specifically care about
density of quality communication across mediums. We're an Operations team, and
being able to broadcast status and information is critical important. As we
work, we don't want to have to re-communicate across mediums, but we still want
to make sure the right people hear us, and provide feedback.

From my team's charter;

{% blockquote %}
We focus on ensuring other team members are as productive as we are.

We understand that in any sufficiently complex environment, no one will
understand everything. We prioritize helping other team members when they
inevitably encounter issues. We also ensure other teams have what they need to
move forward.
{% endblockquote %}

Dense Communication - Communication with an extremely high signal to noise ratio
that's compiled from different sources and intended to cross mediums.

As our team was searching for ways to accomplish this, we began to utilise the
ubiquitous and humble webhook to push information between systems. At first,
we simply started pushing Pull Request comments into our Slack channel. This
immediately increased our velocity, as we found ourselves seamlessly moving
discussions from traditionally asynchronous mediums (Github Pull Requests) to
more real time mediums (Slack, In Person).

Eventually, we started adding more sources to chat via Slack integrations. Our
project management tool was a clear next step, as most of the information we
were pouring into it was helpful to others. Team members reacting to status
updates with pointers and questions was yet another boost to velocity of
information and discourse.

The flip side of this was that looking through our chat was like drinking from a
firehose. There was an immense amount of fragmented, context-less information
flowing at any given time, so much so that it was easy to drown. The uninitiated
considered our channel noisy, which is a fair assessment. Those who didn't have
access to the cornucopia of links ubiquitous to our channel had an even harder
time trying to make sense of things. Some even believed the noise was
distracting.

However, for those of us deep in the shit, we found that we were on the same
page more frequently. In person communication became high trust, where one
speaker could say the wrong thing and the listener could hear the right thing,
thanks largely to the shared context. We found ourselves responding to status
updates made via integrations with helpful suggestions, requests to clarify,
corrections, etc. Proposed plans were reviewed earlier, and noted blocks
were busted more quickly. In general, we reacted more, contributed more, and as
a result, had better outcomes.

slack becomes common medium for communication

- github PR -> slack discussions -> trello card -> realtime
dense notifications create streams of work & interaction points
- PR review
- Movement of trello card triggers question about next steps

public conversations become public knowledge
 - with good records

Team productivity is more important than individual productivity. As humans walk
down the streets of New York, there are a million stimuli, some gross, and some
deadly. To say that people can't read and filter a few lines of text is a cop
out. The cost of not communicating or reacting to our team is velocity and
quality.



Inspired by;
https://twitter.com/postwait/status/637935373327446016



