---
layout: post
title: "Burnout"
date: 2015-11-07 18:31
comments: true
categories:
 - operations
 - personal
---

It was 443. As I headed out the door, someone asked, "Leaving early?". No
malice, no judgment, just a bit of surprise. The office was still full,
keyboards clicking and the drone of technical conversation dully throbbing. "I'm
entitled to it, I just worked for 3 days straight on an incident," I shot back.

Was I entitled to bail early? Probably, but that probably wasn't the right way
to phrase it. I needed it, and without getting away from the firehose of alerts,
problems, and anxiety I would probably explode. The incident in question was a
days long spam attack on my company's site. It wasn't my first rodeo with
hackers, but this time the mitigation required bringing several groups together,
and a pronounced lack of resources from my own team. This attack came at a time
when we were gearing up to launch a new product, and I had been intensely
involved with ensuring the stability of a new, shaky platform.

I took the next two days off, calling in sick. I had already spoken with my
manager, told him I was tired. He kindly ordered me to go home, and take a
vacation. This was the second time in a month I'd unexpectedly needed time off.
At home, I crashed, I played video games, watched a bunch of movies my
girlfriend normally wouldn't palate, and generally just tried to avoid the real
world. Physically, I wasn't all that tired, considering I had only slept 9 hours
over the past 3 days. But my nerves, and my mind were totally shot.

In short, I burned out. Hard.

I lead operations at a small part of a large company, and I've been there a very
long time. My mission has been to ensure the company's online presence is up and
safe. It has been for a long time, and my sense of duty to that mission has
always been somewhat unhealthy. Once I got bored with the Xbox, I went
through a journal I've been keeping for a few years.

In it, there are multiple notes and rants pointing to the simple fact that I
have an unhealthy work-life balance. I have a long running list of songs to
learn on guitar, but I haven't picked up my guitar in several months. I have
notes on code projects I started but didn't make any progress on for years.
There are links to museum exhibits I wanted to go to that closed long ago.

Part of me says that I didn't do any of the things I wanted because I'm lazy.
But that can't be right, I played a key role in creating a successful company,
and I continue to do so.

My signs of burnout
 - say no to everything, even the reasonable things
 - no forward momentum
 - inability to express myself
 - inability to stay on task, or read anything longer than an email
 - how many nights in a row I fall asleep attempting to watch john oliver
 - constant amygdala hijack

A few great burn out resources;

 - [burnout.io](http://burnout.io/)
 - [Getting rid of burnout](http://kentnguyen.com/personal/getting-rid-burnouts/)

